PROBLEMS: (due 10/22)

  1. We will reuse the two Anthrax strains from Hw#3, the gold standard "Ames
     ancestor" that is virulent (NC_007530) and the non-virulent lab strain
     "Ames" (NC_003997). There will also be sample data for assembly (see
     below).


     ok



  2. Visit the MUMmer (http://mummer.sourceforge.net/) and AMOS
     (http://amos.sourceforge.net) websites.


     ok



  3. Read main pages to get a feel for the project, the players, and the goals.
     Specifically, focus on the sections/help on "nucmer" and on genome
     alignments in general for the MUMmer part of this homework. It is fine to
     use MUMmer2.x for this assignment; note MUMmer4 has the same command line
     interface.


     ok



  4. Download and install the MUMmer package and AMOS 3.1.0 (click "Download"
     on the quick links). For this homework, you do not need to install Qt
     required for some of the visualization tools. Minimus will work without
     it.


     ok



  5. Run nucmer on the two strains from #1 using default parameters and with
     the "Ames ancestor" as the reference. Submit the resulting ".delta" file
     (5 points).


     ok. It's stored as "data/q5.delta".



  6. Summarize SNPs and indels between these two strains using the "show-snps"
     utility with the "-C" option. Save the ".snps" file in your submission (5
     points) HINT: You may want to also run mummerplot with the --filter option
     to help with the rest of this assignment or the more comprehensive
     "dnadiff".


     ok. It's stored as "data/q6.snps". In addition, you may find the files
     that were output from dnadiff in "data/q6_dnadiff" directory.



  7. Submit a brief writeup in your report summarizing the results. Hypothesize
     what the differences may be between the strains? Are there a lot of SNPs?
     Potential structural differences? (10 points)


     Based on dnadiff, there are 19 SNPs and 13 GSNPs. The average identical is
     99.99. Based on "q6.snps" (generated with show-snps in the last problem),
     the numbers in the columns [P1] and [P2] are very close. They are merely
     off by a few (some by 1, some by about 100). Some are exactly the same.



  8. Read the minimus documentation, and look at the example projects in
     amos3.1.0/test/minimus. Get a basic idea if the input, what the bank is,
     and perform a test assembly (influenza). Submit contigs for this assembly
     (5 points)


     ok. It's stored as "data/influenza-A.contig".



  9. Download the test dataset from the course website, and assemble it using
     minimus. Submit the resulting contigs (5 points)


     ok. It's stored as "data/camp.contig".



 10. Compare your minimus assembly to the reference available from the course
     webpage using nucmer. Submit the resulting delta file for the bacteria
     genome (5 points).


     ok. It's stored as "data/q10.delta".



 11. Provide a brief summary of the results (how many contigs, average contig
     size, etc.) for grading and do the same sort of comparisons as #7
     (show-coords, show-snps, etc). Do you think these are good or bad
     assemblies and why? Submit this summary and any relevant supporting files
     (10 points)


     According to the logs from running minimus (data/camp.runAmos.log), there
     are 284 contigs.

     Based on dnadiff, there are 21 SNPs and 3 GSNPs. The average identical is
     99.94%. Based on "q10.snps" (generated with show-snps just for this
     problem), the numbers in the columns [P1] and [P2] are very far off from
     each other. It honestly doesn't look like a good assembly from this alone.

     A run of dnadiff and its output files can be found at "data/q11_dnadiff"
     just for this problem.



